Physics/RadiativeTransfer/README.md, before:

# Physics/RtPhysics
This physics module solves for a radiative transfer problem. This module contains files for setting up the initial conditions and integrators. It does not feature adaptive mesh refinement. 
See https://chombo-discharge.github.io/RtPhysicsModel.html for implementation details.

The source files consist of the following:

* **CD_RtPhysicsSpecies.H/cpp** Implementation of RtSpecies, for setting up a radiative transfer equation. 
* **CD_RtPhysicsStepper.H/cpp** Implementation of TimeStepper, for advancing the radiative transfer equation, either stationary or transient. 

## Setting up a new application
To set up a new problem, use the Python script. For example:

```shell
./setup.py -base_dir=myApplications -app_name=myRtPhysics -dim=2 -geometry=CoaxialCable -RtSolver=EddingtonSP1
```

Note that the user can choose between either using discrete or continuum models with the -RtSolver flag.
Acceptable options are EddingtonSP1 or McPhoto. 

The application will be installed to $DISCHARGE_HOME/myApplications/myRtPhysics.
The user will need to modify the geometry and set the initial conditions through the inputs file. 

## Modifying the application
By default, this application specifies a Gaussian source for the photons. 
Users are free to modify this application, e.g. adding other initial conditions.

Commit message:

Expose PETSC to chombo-discharge (#597)

Physics/RadiativeTransfer/README.md, after:

# Physics/RtPhysics
This physics module solves for a radiative transfer problem. This module contains files for setting up the initial conditions and integrators. It does not feature adaptive mesh refinement. 

The source files consist of the following:

* **CD_RtPhysicsSpecies.H/cpp** Implementation of RtSpecies, for setting up a radiative transfer equation. 
* **CD_RtPhysicsStepper.H/cpp** Implementation of TimeStepper, for advancing the radiative transfer equation, either stationary or transient. 

## Setting up a new application
To set up a new problem, use the Python script. For example:

```shell
python setup.py -base_dir=/home/foo/MyApplications -app_name=MyRadiativeTransfer -geometry=Vessel
```

To install within chombo-discharge:

```shell
python setup.py -base_dir=$DISCHARGE_HOME/MyApplications -app_name=MyRadiativeTransfer -geometry=Vessel
```

The application will then be installed to $DISCHARGE_HOME/myApplications/myRtPhysics.
The user will need to modify the geometry and set the initial conditions through the inputs file.
Note that the user can choose between either using discrete or continuum models with the -RtSolver flag.

## Modifying the application
By default, this application specifies a Gaussian source for the photons. 
Users are free to modify this application, e.g. adding other initial conditions.
