Docs/Sphinx/source/Solvers/KineticMonteCarlo.rst, before:

.. _Chap:KineticMonteCarlo:

Kinetic Monte Carlo
===================

Concept
-------

Kinetic Monte Carlo solvers advance a state (or multiple states) represented e.g. as state vectors

.. math::

   \vec{X}(t) = \begin{pmatrix}
   X_1(t) \\
   X_2(t) \\
   X_3(t) \\
   \vdots
   \end{pmatrix}

Each row in :math:`\vec{X}` represents e.g. the population of some chemical species.
Reactions between species are represented stoichiometrically as

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} X_C + X_D + \ldots,

where :math:`k` is the reaction rate.
Each such reaction is associated with a state change in :math:`\vec{X}`, e.g.

.. math::

   \vec{X}\xrightarrow{r} \vec{X} + \vec{\nu}_r,

where :math:`r` is the reaction type and :math:`\nu_r` is the state change associated with the firing of *one* reaction of type :math:`r`.
A set of such reactions is called the *reaction network* :math:`\vec{R}`.

Propensities :math:`a_r\left(\vec{X}\right)` are defined such that :math:`a_r\left(\vec{X}\right)\textrm{d}t` is the probability that exactly one reaction of type :math:`r` occurs in the time interval :math:`[t, t+\textrm{d}t]`.
For unimolecular reactions of the type

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} \emptyset

with :math:`A \neq B \neq \ldots` the propensity function is :math:`k X_A X_B \ldots`.
For bimolecular of the type

.. math::

   2X_A \xrightarrow{k} \emptyset

the propensity is :math:`k \frac{1}{2} X_A(X_A-1)` because there are :math:`\frac{1}{2}X_A(X_A-1)` unique pairs of molecules of type A.
Propensities for higher-order reactions can then be expanded using the binomial theorem.
For example, for a third-order reaction :math:`3X_A\xrightarrow{k} \emptyset` the propensity function is :math:`k\frac{1}{6}X_A(X_A-1)(X_A-2)`. 

Various algorithms can be used for advancing the state :math:`\vec{X}` for an arbitrary reaction network :math:`\vec{R}`.

#. The :ref:`Chap:KMCSSAAdvance` (SSA).
   The SSA is also known as the Gillespie algorithm :cite:`Gillespie1977`, and is an exact stochastic solution to the above problem.
   However, it becomes inefficient as the number of reactions per unit time grows. 
   
#. :ref:`Chap:KMCtauAdvance`, which is an approximation to the SSA which uses Poisson sampling of the underlying reactions. 

#. Hybrid advance, see :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance`.
   The hybrid algorithm is taken from :cite:t:`Cao2006`, and switches between tau leaping and the SSA in their respective limits.

.. _Chap:KMCSSAAdvance:

Stochastic simulation algorithm
-------------------------------

For the SSA we compute the time until the next reaction by

.. math::

   T = \frac{1}{\sum_{r\in\vec{R}} a_r}\ln\left(\frac{1}{u_1}\right)

where :math:`A = \sum_{r\in\vec{R}} a_r` and :math:`u_1` is a uniformly distributed random variable between :math:`0` and :math:`1`.
The type of reaction that fires is deterimined from

.. math::

   r_c = \textrm{smallest integer satisfying } \sum_{r^\prime = 1}^{r_c} a_{r^\prime} > u_2A,

where and :math:`u_2` is another uniformly distributed random variable between :math:`0` and :math:`1`.
The state is then advanced as

.. math::

   \vec{X}(t+T) = \vec{X}(t) + \vec{\nu}_{r_c}.


.. _Chap:KMCtauAdvance:

Tau leaping
-----------

With tau-leaping the state is advanced over a time :math:`\Delta t` as

.. math::

   \vec{X}\left(t+\Delta t\right) =  \vec{X}\left(t\right) + \sum_{\vec{R}} \vec{\nu}_r\mathcal{P}\left(a_r\left[\vec{X}\left(t\right)\right]\Delta t\right),

   
where :math:`\mathcal{P}` is a Poisson-distributed random variable.
Note that tau leaping may fail to give a thermodynamically valid state, and should thus be used in combination with step rejection.

Tau-leaping variants
____________________

The following forms of tau-leaping are also supported:

#. Midpoint tau-leaping.
#. Poisson random-corrections tau-leaping.
#. Implicit Euler-type tau-leaping. 

These methods can be used either as standalone methods or together with the hybrid algorithm.

.. _Chap:KMCHybridAdvance:

Hybrid algorithm
----------------

The hybrid algorithm is taken from :cite:t:`Cao2006`.
Assume that we wish to integrate over some time :math:`\Delta t`, which proceeds as follows:

#. Let :math:`\tau = 0` be the simulated time within :math:`\Delta t`. 
#. Partition the reaction set :math:`\vec{R}` into *critical* and *non-critical* reactions.
   The critical reactions are defined as the subset of :math:`\vec{R}` that are within :math:`N_{\textrm{crit}}` firings away from exhausting one of its reactants.
   The non-critical reactions are defined as the remaining subset.

#. Compute time steps until the firing of the next critical reaction, and a time step such that the propensities of the non-critical reactions do not change by more than some relative factor :math:`\epsilon`.
   Let these time steps be given by :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}}`\ and :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}`.

#. Select a reactive substep within :math:`\Delta t` from

   .. math::

      \Delta \tau = \min\left[\Delta t - \tau, \min\left(\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}}, \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}\right)\right]

#. Resolve reactions as follows:

   a. If :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}} < \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}` and :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}} < \Delta t - \tau` then one critical reaction fires.
      Determine the reaction type using the SSA algorithm.

      Next, advance the state using tau leaping for the non-critical reaction.

   b. Otherwise: No crical reactions fire.
      Advance the state using tau-leapnig for the non-critical reactions only.
      An exception is made if :math:`A\Delta\tau` is smaller than some specified threshold in which case we switch to SSA advancement (which is more efficient in this limit). 

#. Check if :math:`\vec{X}` is a thermodynamically valid state.

   a. If the state is valid, accept it and let :math:`\tau \rightarrow \tau + \Delta\tau`.

   b. If the state is invalid, reject the advancement.
      Let :math:`\Delta\tau_{\textrm{nc}} \rightarrow \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}/2` and return to step 4).

#. If :math:`\tau < \Delta t`, return to step 2.

The :cite:t:`Cao2006` algorithm requires algorithmic specifications as follows:

* The factor :math:`\epsilon` which determines the non-critical time step.
* The factor :math:`N_{\textrm{crit}}` which determines which reactions are critical or not.
* Factors for determining when and how to switch to the SSA-based algorithm in step 5b. 

.. _Chap:KMCSolver:

Implementation
--------------

The Kinetic Monte Carlo solver is implemented as

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename R, typename State, typename T = long long>
   class KMCSolver
   {
   public:
      using ReactionList = std::vector<std::shared_ptr<const R>>;
      
      inline KMCSolver(const ReactionList& a_reaction) noexcept;
   }

The template parameters are:

* ``R`` is the type of reaction to advance with.
* ``State`` is the state vector that the KMC and reactions will advance.
* ``T`` is the internal floating point or integer representation.

.. tip::

   The ``KMCSolver`` C++ API is found at `<https://chombo-discharge.github.io/chombo-discharge/doxygen/html/classKMCSolver.html>`_.

State
_____

The ``State`` representation *must* have a member function

.. code-block:: c++

   bool State::isValidState() const;

which determines if the state is thermodynamically valid (e.g. no negative populations).
The functionality is used when using the hybrid advancement algorithm, see :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance`.

Reaction(s)
___________

The reaction representation ``R`` *must* have the following member functions:

.. code-block:: c++

   // Compute the propensity of the current reaction. 
   Real R::propensity(const State& s) const;

   // Compute the number of reactions before exhausting one of the reactants
   T R::computeCriticalNumberOfReactions(const State& s) const;

   // Compute the number of reactions before exhausting one of the reactants
   void R::advanceState(const State& s, const T& numReactions) const;

   // Get a vector/list/deque etc. of the reactants. <some_container> can be e.g. std::vector<size_t> 
   <some_container> R::getReactants() const;

   // Get the population corresponding to 'reactant' in the input state. If e.g. <some_container> is
   // std::vector<size_t> then <some_type> will be <size_t>
   T R::population(const <some_type> reactant, const State& s) const;

These template requirements exist so that users can define their states independent of their reactions.
Likewise, reactions can be defined to operate flexibly on state, and the ``KMCSolver`` can be defined without deep restrictions on the states and reactions that are used. 

Defining states
_______________

State representations ``State`` can be defined quite simply (e.g. just a list of indices).
In the absolute simplest case a state can be defined by maintaining a list of populations like below:

.. code-block:: c++

   class MyState {
   public:
      MyState(const size_t numSpecies) {
         m_populations.resize(numSpecies);
      }

      bool isValidState() const {
         return true;
      }
      
      std::vector<long long> m_populations;
   };

More advanced examples can distinguish between different *modes* of populations, e.g. between species that can only appear on the left/right hand side of the reactions.
See :ref:`Chap:KMCDualState` for such an example.

Defining reactions
__________________

See :ref:`Chap:KMCSolver` for template requirements on state-advancing reactions.
Using ``MyState`` above as an example, a minimal reaction that can advance :math:`A\rightarrow B` with a rate of :math:`k=1` is

.. code-block:: c++

   class MyStateReaction {
   public:

      // List of reactants and products
      MyStateReaction(const size_t a_A, const size_t a_B) {
         m_A = a_A;
         m_B = a_B;	 
      }

      // Compute propensity
      Real propensity(const State& a_state) {
         return a_state[m_A];
      }

      // Never consider these reactions to be "critical"
      long long computeCriticalNumberOfReactions(const Mystate& a_state) {
         return std::numeric_limits<long long>::max();
      }

      // Get a vector/list/deque etc. of the reactant's. <some_container> can be e.g. std::vector<size_t> 
      std::list<size_t> R::getReactants() const {
         return std::list<size_t>{m_A};
      }      

      // Get population
      long long population(const size_t& a_reactant, const MyState& a_state) {
         return a_state.m_populations[a_reactant];
      }

      // Advance state with reaction A -> B
      void advanceState(const MyState& s, const long long& numReactions) const {
         s.populations[m_A] -= numReactions;
         s.populations[m_B] += numReactions;
      }

   protected:
      size_t m_A;
      size_t m_B;	 
   };

Advancement routines
____________________

The advancement routines for the ``KMCSolver`` are

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename R, typename State, typename T = long long>
   class KMCSolver
   {
   public:

      // Advance one step with the SSA algorithm.
      inline void
      advanceSSA(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Advance using tau leaping
      inline void
      advanceTau(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Advance using hybrid algorithm. 
      inline void
      advanceHybrid(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Set hybrid solver parameters.
      inline void
      setSolverParameters(const T a_numCrit, const T a_numSSA, const Real a_eps, const Real a_SSAlim) noexcept;      
   };

When using the hybrid algorithm, the user should set the hybrid solver parameters through ``setSolverParameters``.
See :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance` for further details. 

State and reaction examples
---------------------------

``chombo-discharge`` maintains some states and reaction methods that can be useful when solving problems with ``KMCSolver``.

.. _Chap:KMCSingleState:

Single-state
____________

The ``KMCSingleState`` class defines a single state vector :math:`\vec{X}` that can appear on either side of reactions.
The user defines the number of species through the constructor

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename T = long long>
   class KMCSingleState {
   public:
      // Define a state vector with specified number of species. 
      inline KMCSingleState(const size_t a_numSpecies) noexcept;
   };

Internally the state just uses a ``std::vector<T>`` for representing the populations.

``KMCSingleStateReaction`` can be used to define reactions between species in ``KMCSingleState``.
The reaction is specified as a generic type of reaction

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} X_C + X_D + \ldots.

The relevant function signatures that specify the reactants, products, and the rate :math:`k`, are

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename T = long long, typename State = KMCSingleState<T>>
   class KMCSingleStateReaction {
   public:

      // Define list of reactants/products through constructor
      inline
      KMCSingleStateReaction(const std::list<size_t>& a_reactants,
                             const std::list<size_t>& a_products) noexcept;

      // For setting the reaction rate used in the propensity calculation.
      inline Real&
      rate() const noexcept;
   };

.. _Chap:KMCDualState:

KMCDualState
____________

``KMCDualState`` defines two state vectors :math:`\vec{X}` and :math:`\vec{Y}` where :math:`\vec{X}` are *reactant species* and :math:`\vec{Y}` are *non-reactant* species.
The intention behind this class is that reactant species are allowed on either side of the reaction, while the non-reactant species only occur on the right-hand side of the reaction.
For example:

.. math::

   X_A \ldots \xrightarrow{k} 2X_A + Y_A + \emptyset

The class is implemented as

.. code-block:: c++
		
   template <typename T = long long>
   class KMCDualState {
   public:
      // Define a state vector with specified number of species. 
      inline KMCDualState(const size_t a_numReactiveSpecies, const size_t a_numNonReactiveSpecies) noexcept;

      // Get the reactant state (i.e, X)
      std::vector<T>& getReactiveState() noexcept;

      // Get the non-reactant state (i.e, Y)
      std::vector<T>& getNonReactiveState() noexcept;      
   };

``KMCDualStateReaction`` can define reactions between states in the state vector :math:`\vec{X}` which give products in both :math:`\vec{X}` and :math:`\vec{Y}` as follows.

.. code-block:: c++
		
   template <typename T = long long, typename State = KMCDualState<T>>
   class KMCDualStateReaction {
   public:

      // Define list of reactants/products through constructor
      inline
      KMCDualStateReaction(const std::list<size_t>& a_lhsReactives,
                           const std::list<size_t>& a_rhsReactives,
                           const std::list<size_t>& a_rhsNonReactives);

      // For setting the reaction rate used in the propensity calculation.
      inline Real&
      rate() const noexcept;
   };


Verification
------------

Verification tests for ``KMCSolver`` are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C1`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C2`  

C1: Avalanche model
___________________

An electron avalanche model is given in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C1`.
The problem solves for a reaction network

.. math::

   X + \emptyset &\xrightarrow{k_i} X + X + \emptyset \\
   X + \emptyset &\xrightarrow{k_a} \emptyset

In the limit :math:`X\gg 1` the exact solution is

.. math::

   X(t) \approx X(0)\exp\left[(k_i-k_a)t\right].

Figure :numref:`Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1` shows the Kinetic Monte Carlo solution for :math:`k_i = 2k_a = 2` and :math:`X(0) = 10`.

.. _Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/KineticMonteCarloC1.png
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Comparison of Kinetic Monte Carlo solution with reaction rate equation for an avalanche-like problem.


C2: Schlögl model
_________________

Solution the Schlögl model are given in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C2`.
For the Schlögl model we solve for a single population :math:`X` with the reactions

.. math::

   B_1 + 2X &\xrightarrow{c_1} 3X, \\
   3X  &\xrightarrow{c_2} B1 + 2X, \\
   B2  &\xrightarrow{c_3} X, \\
   X  &\xrightarrow{c_4} B2.   

The states :math:`B_1` and :math:`B_2` are buffered states with populations that do not change during the reactions. 
Figure :numref:`Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1` shows the Kinetic Monte Carlo solutions for rates

.. math::

   c_1 &= 3\times 10^{-7}, \\
   c_2 &= 10^{-4}, \\
   c_3 &= 10^{-3}, \\
   c_4 &= 3.5

and :math:`B_1 = 10^5`, :math:`B_2 = 2\times 10^5`.
The initial state is :math:`X(0) = 250`.

.. _Fig:KineticMonteCarloC2:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/KineticMonteCarloC2.png
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Convergence to bi-stable states for the Schlögl model.

Commit message:

Better docs and implicit methods

Docs/Sphinx/source/Solvers/KineticMonteCarlo.rst, after:

.. _Chap:KineticMonteCarlo:

Kinetic Monte Carlo
===================

Concept
-------

Kinetic Monte Carlo solvers advance a state (or multiple states) represented e.g. as state vectors

.. math::

   \vec{X}(t) = \begin{pmatrix}
   X_1(t) \\
   X_2(t) \\
   X_3(t) \\
   \vdots
   \end{pmatrix}

Each row in :math:`\vec{X}` represents e.g. the population of some chemical species.
Reactions between species are represented stoichiometrically as

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} X_C + X_D + \ldots,

where :math:`k` is the reaction rate.
Each such reaction is associated with a state change in :math:`\vec{X}`, e.g.

.. math::

   \vec{X}\xrightarrow{r} \vec{X} + \vec{\nu}_r,

where :math:`r` is the reaction type and :math:`\nu_r` is the state change associated with the firing of *one* reaction of type :math:`r`.
A set of such reactions is called the *reaction network* :math:`\vec{R}`.

Propensities :math:`a_r\left(\vec{X}\right)` are defined such that :math:`a_r\left(\vec{X}\right)\textrm{d}t` is the probability that exactly one reaction of type :math:`r` occurs in the time interval :math:`[t, t+\textrm{d}t]`.
For unimolecular reactions of the type

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} \emptyset

with :math:`A \neq B \neq \ldots` the propensity function is :math:`k X_A X_B \ldots`.
For bimolecular of the type

.. math::

   2X_A \xrightarrow{k} \emptyset

the propensity is :math:`k \frac{1}{2} X_A(X_A-1)` because there are :math:`\frac{1}{2}X_A(X_A-1)` unique pairs of molecules of type A.
Propensities for higher-order reactions can then be expanded using the binomial theorem.
For example, for a third-order reaction :math:`3X_A\xrightarrow{k} \emptyset` the propensity function is :math:`k\frac{1}{6}X_A(X_A-1)(X_A-2)`. 

Various algorithms can be used for advancing the state :math:`\vec{X}` for an arbitrary reaction network :math:`\vec{R}`.

#. The :ref:`Chap:KMCSSAAdvance` (SSA).
   The SSA is also known as the Gillespie algorithm :cite:`Gillespie1977`, and is an exact stochastic solution to the above problem.
   However, it becomes inefficient as the number of reactions per unit time grows. 
   
#. :ref:`Chap:KMCtauAdvance`, which is an approximation to the SSA which uses Poisson sampling of the underlying reactions. 

#. Hybrid advance, see :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance`.
   The hybrid algorithm is taken from :cite:t:`Cao2006`, and switches between tau leaping and the SSA in their respective limits.

.. _Chap:KMCSSAAdvance:

Stochastic simulation algorithm
-------------------------------

For the SSA we compute the time until the next reaction by

.. math::

   T = \frac{1}{\sum_{r\in\vec{R}} a_r}\ln\left(\frac{1}{u_1}\right)

where :math:`A = \sum_{r\in\vec{R}} a_r` and :math:`u_1` is a uniformly distributed random variable between :math:`0` and :math:`1`.
The type of reaction that fires is deterimined from

.. math::

   r_c = \textrm{smallest integer satisfying } \sum_{r^\prime = 1}^{r_c} a_{r^\prime} > u_2A,

where and :math:`u_2` is another uniformly distributed random variable between :math:`0` and :math:`1`.
The state is then advanced as

.. math::

   \vec{X}(t+T) = \vec{X}(t) + \vec{\nu}_{r_c}.


.. _Chap:KMCtauAdvance:

Tau leaping
-----------

With tau-leaping the state is advanced over a time :math:`\Delta t` as

.. math::

   \vec{X}\left(t+\Delta t\right) =  \vec{X}\left(t\right) + \sum_{\vec{R}} \vec{\nu}_r\mathcal{P}\left(a_r\left[\vec{X}\left(t\right)\right]\Delta t\right),

   
where :math:`\mathcal{P}` is a Poisson-distributed random variable.
Note that tau leaping may fail to give a thermodynamically valid state, and should thus be used in combination with step rejection.

Tau-leaping variants
____________________

The following forms of tau-leaping are also supported:

#. Midpoint tau-leaping.
#. Poisson random-corrections tau-leaping.
#. Implicit Euler-type tau-leaping. 

These methods can be used either as standalone methods or together with the hybrid algorithm.

.. warning::

   We do not recommend implicit methods for reactive problems.
   The reason for this is that exponential growth follows the equation

   .. math::

      \partial_t X = k X,

   where :math:`X` is the number of electrons and :math:`k>0` is a growth rate.
   Application of the implicit Euler rule to this system yields

   .. math::

      X^{n+1} = \frac{X^n}{1 - k\Delta t},

   which has a pole at :math:`\Delta t = k^{-1}`, and which is only non-negative for :math:`k\Delta t < 1`.
   Similarly, the discretization can then lead to a large overshoot.   
   In practice, the time step then has to be limited to :math:`\Delta t < k^{-1}`.

   On the other hand, an explicit Euler update would yield

   .. math::

      X^{n+1} = \left(1+k\Delta t\right) X^n,

   which is stable for any :math:`\Delta t`.

.. _Chap:KMCHybridAdvance:

Hybrid algorithm
----------------

The hybrid algorithm is taken from :cite:t:`Cao2006`.
Assume that we wish to integrate over some time :math:`\Delta t`, which proceeds as follows:

#. Let :math:`\tau = 0` be the simulated time within :math:`\Delta t`. 
#. Partition the reaction set :math:`\vec{R}` into *critical* and *non-critical* reactions.
   The critical reactions are defined as the subset of :math:`\vec{R}` that are within :math:`N_{\textrm{crit}}` firings away from exhausting one of its reactants.
   The non-critical reactions are defined as the remaining subset.

#. Compute time steps until the firing of the next critical reaction, and a time step such that the propensities of the non-critical reactions do not change by more than some relative factor :math:`\epsilon`.
   Let these time steps be given by :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}}`\ and :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}`.

#. Select a reactive substep within :math:`\Delta t` from

   .. math::

      \Delta \tau = \min\left[\Delta t - \tau, \min\left(\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}}, \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}\right)\right]

#. Resolve reactions as follows:

   a. If :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}} < \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}` and :math:`\Delta \tau_{\textrm{c}} < \Delta t - \tau` then one critical reaction fires.
      Determine the reaction type using the SSA algorithm.

      Next, advance the state using tau leaping for the non-critical reaction.

   b. Otherwise: No crical reactions fire.
      Advance the state using tau-leapnig for the non-critical reactions only.
      An exception is made if :math:`A\Delta\tau` is smaller than some specified threshold in which case we switch to SSA advancement (which is more efficient in this limit). 

#. Check if :math:`\vec{X}` is a thermodynamically valid state.

   a. If the state is valid, accept it and let :math:`\tau \rightarrow \tau + \Delta\tau`.

   b. If the state is invalid, reject the advancement.
      Let :math:`\Delta\tau_{\textrm{nc}} \rightarrow \Delta \tau_{\textrm{nc}}/2` and return to step 4).

#. If :math:`\tau < \Delta t`, return to step 2.

The :cite:t:`Cao2006` algorithm requires algorithmic specifications as follows:

* The factor :math:`\epsilon` which determines the non-critical time step.
* The factor :math:`N_{\textrm{crit}}` which determines which reactions are critical or not.
* Factors for determining when and how to switch to the SSA-based algorithm in step 5b. 

.. _Chap:KMCSolver:

Implementation
--------------

The Kinetic Monte Carlo solver is implemented as

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename R, typename State, typename T = long long>
   class KMCSolver
   {
   public:
      using ReactionList = std::vector<std::shared_ptr<const R>>;
      
      inline KMCSolver(const ReactionList& a_reaction) noexcept;
   }

The template parameters are:

* ``R`` is the type of reaction to advance with.
* ``State`` is the state vector that the KMC and reactions will advance.
* ``T`` is the internal floating point or integer representation.

.. tip::

   The ``KMCSolver`` C++ API is found at `<https://chombo-discharge.github.io/chombo-discharge/doxygen/html/classKMCSolver.html>`_.

State
_____

The ``State`` representation *must* have a member function

.. code-block:: c++

   bool State::isValidState() const;

which determines if the state is thermodynamically valid (e.g. no negative populations).
The functionality is used when using the hybrid advancement algorithm, see :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance`.

Reaction(s)
___________

The reaction representation ``R`` *must* have the following member functions:

.. code-block:: c++

   // Compute the propensity of the current reaction. 
   Real R::propensity(const State& s) const;

   // Compute the number of reactions before exhausting one of the reactants
   T R::computeCriticalNumberOfReactions(const State& s) const;

   // Compute the number of reactions before exhausting one of the reactants
   void R::advanceState(const State& s, const T& numReactions) const;

   // Get a vector/list/deque etc. of the reactants. <some_container> can be e.g. std::vector<size_t> 
   <some_container> R::getReactants() const;

   // Get the population corresponding to 'reactant' in the input state. If e.g. <some_container> is
   // std::vector<size_t> then <some_type> will be <size_t>
   T R::population(const <some_type> reactant, const State& s) const;

These template requirements exist so that users can define their states independent of their reactions.
Likewise, reactions can be defined to operate flexibly on state, and the ``KMCSolver`` can be defined without deep restrictions on the states and reactions that are used. 

Defining states
_______________

State representations ``State`` can be defined quite simply (e.g. just a list of indices).
In the absolute simplest case a state can be defined by maintaining a list of populations like below:

.. code-block:: c++

   class MyState {
   public:
      MyState(const size_t numSpecies) {
         m_populations.resize(numSpecies);
      }

      bool isValidState() const {
         return true;
      }
      
      std::vector<long long> m_populations;
   };

More advanced examples can distinguish between different *modes* of populations, e.g. between species that can only appear on the left/right hand side of the reactions.
See :ref:`Chap:KMCDualState` for such an example.

Defining reactions
__________________

See :ref:`Chap:KMCSolver` for template requirements on state-advancing reactions.
Using ``MyState`` above as an example, a minimal reaction that can advance :math:`A\rightarrow B` with a rate of :math:`k=1` is

.. code-block:: c++

   class MyStateReaction {
   public:

      // List of reactants and products
      MyStateReaction(const size_t a_A, const size_t a_B) {
         m_A = a_A;
         m_B = a_B;	 
      }

      // Compute propensity
      Real propensity(const State& a_state) {
         return a_state[m_A];
      }

      // Never consider these reactions to be "critical"
      long long computeCriticalNumberOfReactions(const Mystate& a_state) {
         return std::numeric_limits<long long>::max();
      }

      // Get a vector/list/deque etc. of the reactant's. <some_container> can be e.g. std::vector<size_t> 
      std::list<size_t> R::getReactants() const {
         return std::list<size_t>{m_A};
      }      

      // Get population
      long long population(const size_t& a_reactant, const MyState& a_state) {
         return a_state.m_populations[a_reactant];
      }

      // Advance state with reaction A -> B
      void advanceState(const MyState& s, const long long& numReactions) const {
         s.populations[m_A] -= numReactions;
         s.populations[m_B] += numReactions;
      }

   protected:
      size_t m_A;
      size_t m_B;	 
   };

Advancement routines
____________________

The advancement routines for the ``KMCSolver`` are

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename R, typename State, typename T = long long>
   class KMCSolver
   {
   public:

      // Advance one step with the SSA algorithm.
      inline void
      advanceSSA(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Advance using tau leaping
      inline void
      advanceTau(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Advance using hybrid algorithm. 
      inline void
      advanceHybrid(State& a_state, const Real a_dt) const;

      // Set hybrid solver parameters.
      inline void
      setSolverParameters(const T a_numCrit, const T a_numSSA, const Real a_eps, const Real a_SSAlim) noexcept;      
   };

When using the hybrid algorithm, the user should set the hybrid solver parameters through ``setSolverParameters``.
See :ref:`Chap:KMCHybridAdvance` for further details. 

State and reaction examples
---------------------------

``chombo-discharge`` maintains some states and reaction methods that can be useful when solving problems with ``KMCSolver``.

.. _Chap:KMCSingleState:

Single-state
____________

The ``KMCSingleState`` class defines a single state vector :math:`\vec{X}` that can appear on either side of reactions.
The user defines the number of species through the constructor

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename T = long long>
   class KMCSingleState {
   public:
      // Define a state vector with specified number of species. 
      inline KMCSingleState(const size_t a_numSpecies) noexcept;
   };

Internally the state just uses a ``std::vector<T>`` for representing the populations.

``KMCSingleStateReaction`` can be used to define reactions between species in ``KMCSingleState``.
The reaction is specified as a generic type of reaction

.. math::

   X_A + X_B + \ldots \xrightarrow{k} X_C + X_D + \ldots.

The relevant function signatures that specify the reactants, products, and the rate :math:`k`, are

.. code-block:: c++

   template <typename T = long long, typename State = KMCSingleState<T>>
   class KMCSingleStateReaction {
   public:

      // Define list of reactants/products through constructor
      inline
      KMCSingleStateReaction(const std::list<size_t>& a_reactants,
                             const std::list<size_t>& a_products) noexcept;

      // For setting the reaction rate used in the propensity calculation.
      inline Real&
      rate() const noexcept;
   };

.. _Chap:KMCDualState:

KMCDualState
____________

``KMCDualState`` defines two state vectors :math:`\vec{X}` and :math:`\vec{Y}` where :math:`\vec{X}` are *reactant species* and :math:`\vec{Y}` are *non-reactant* species.
The intention behind this class is that reactant species are allowed on either side of the reaction, while the non-reactant species only occur on the right-hand side of the reaction.
For example:

.. math::

   X_A \ldots \xrightarrow{k} 2X_A + Y_A + \emptyset

The class is implemented as

.. code-block:: c++
		
   template <typename T = long long>
   class KMCDualState {
   public:
      // Define a state vector with specified number of species. 
      inline KMCDualState(const size_t a_numReactiveSpecies, const size_t a_numNonReactiveSpecies) noexcept;

      // Get the reactant state (i.e, X)
      std::vector<T>& getReactiveState() noexcept;

      // Get the non-reactant state (i.e, Y)
      std::vector<T>& getNonReactiveState() noexcept;      
   };

``KMCDualStateReaction`` can define reactions between states in the state vector :math:`\vec{X}` which give products in both :math:`\vec{X}` and :math:`\vec{Y}` as follows.

.. code-block:: c++
		
   template <typename T = long long, typename State = KMCDualState<T>>
   class KMCDualStateReaction {
   public:

      // Define list of reactants/products through constructor
      inline
      KMCDualStateReaction(const std::list<size_t>& a_lhsReactives,
                           const std::list<size_t>& a_rhsReactives,
                           const std::list<size_t>& a_rhsNonReactives);

      // For setting the reaction rate used in the propensity calculation.
      inline Real&
      rate() const noexcept;
   };


Verification
------------

Verification tests for ``KMCSolver`` are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C1`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C2`  

C1: Avalanche model
___________________

An electron avalanche model is given in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C1`.
The problem solves for a reaction network

.. math::

   X + \emptyset &\xrightarrow{k_i} X + X + \emptyset \\
   X + \emptyset &\xrightarrow{k_a} \emptyset

In the limit :math:`X\gg 1` the exact solution is

.. math::

   X(t) \approx X(0)\exp\left[(k_i-k_a)t\right].

Figure :numref:`Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1` shows the Kinetic Monte Carlo solution for :math:`k_i = 2k_a = 2` and :math:`X(0) = 10`.

.. _Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/KineticMonteCarloC1.png
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Comparison of Kinetic Monte Carlo solution with reaction rate equation for an avalanche-like problem.


C2: Schlögl model
_________________

Solution the Schlögl model are given in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/KineticMonteCarlo/C2`.
For the Schlögl model we solve for a single population :math:`X` with the reactions

.. math::

   B_1 + 2X &\xrightarrow{c_1} 3X, \\
   3X  &\xrightarrow{c_2} B1 + 2X, \\
   B2  &\xrightarrow{c_3} X, \\
   X  &\xrightarrow{c_4} B2.   

The states :math:`B_1` and :math:`B_2` are buffered states with populations that do not change during the reactions. 
Figure :numref:`Fig:KineticMonteCarloC1` shows the Kinetic Monte Carlo solutions for rates

.. math::

   c_1 &= 3\times 10^{-7}, \\
   c_2 &= 10^{-4}, \\
   c_3 &= 10^{-3}, \\
   c_4 &= 3.5

and :math:`B_1 = 10^5`, :math:`B_2 = 2\times 10^5`.
The initial state is :math:`X(0) = 250`.

.. _Fig:KineticMonteCarloC2:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/KineticMonteCarloC2.png
   :width: 50%
   :align: center

   Convergence to bi-stable states for the Schlögl model.
