doc/sphinx/source/RunningSimulations.rst, before:

.. _Chap:RunningSimulations:

Running simulations
===================

To run simulations, the user must first compile his application. Once the application has been defined, the user may compile is by

.. code-block:: bash

   make -s -j 32 DIM=N <application_name>

where *N* may be 2 or 3, and <application_name> is the name of the mini-application. This will compile an executable whose name depends on your application name and compiler settings. Please refer to the Chombo manual for explanation of the executable name. You may, of course, rename your application.

Next, applications are run by

.. code-block:: bash

		mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file>

where <input_file> is your input file. On clusters, this is a little bit different and usually requires passing the above command through a batch system. Note that if you define a parameter multiple times in the input file, it's the last definition that matters. 

You may also pass input parameters through the command line. For example, running

.. code-block:: bash

   mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file> plasma_engine.max_steps=10

set the ``plasma_engine.max_steps`` parameter to 10. Note that this overrides whatever is defined in the <input_file>. 

.. _Chap:RestartingSimulations:

Restarting simulations
----------------------

Restarting simulations is done in exactly the same way as running simulations, although the user must set the ``plasma_engine.restart`` flag and the ``plasma_engine.restart_step`` input variable. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file> plasma_engine.restart=true plasma_engine.restart_step=10

When a simulation is restarted, PlasmaC will look for a checkpoint file with the ``plasma_engine.output_names`` variable and the specified restart step. If this file is not found, restarting will not work. You must therefore ensure that your executable can locate this file. This also implies that you cannot change the ``plasma_engine.output_names`` variable during restarts, unless you also change the name of your checkpoint file.

Changing your physics
_____________________

During the restart step, PlasmaC will load the initial grids and checkpointed data into memory. This data resides in an HDF5 file with where appropriate headers are used to identify where the data belongs. Amongst other things, the names of these headers are taken from :ref:`Chap:plasma_kinetics`, so you cannot change the species during during restarts. Currently, PlasmaC requires the exact same number of species during restarts, as well as consistent names for these. However, you *may* change the :ref:`Chap:plasma_kinetics` core functions, allowing you to change your plasma chemistry during restarts.

Changing your integrator
________________________

Users may also change temporal integrators during restarts. However, this requires you to 1) in advance set up two different integrators and provide input variables to these or 2) recompile your executable with a different integrator.

Changing spatial discretization
_______________________________

Spatial discretization may be changed during restarts. **However, you are *not* allowed to change the geometry or physical domain.** Furthermore, the following :ref:`Chap:amr_mesh` input variables are off-limits:

* ``amr.coarsest_domain``
* ``amr.max_amr_depth``
* ``amr.ref_rat``

If you change these variables, the checkpointed data cannot be imported into memory. In principle, we *can* extend PlasmaC so that this will be allowed. If you really, really want this feature, please :ref:`Chap:contact`.

Note that whatever changes you otherwise apply to :ref:`Chap:amr_mesh` become active only after the first regrid. 

Changing other settings
_______________________

Apart from the above variables, most changes are allowed during restarts. For example, you are allowed to use different tagging criteria (or even entirely different tagging classes); you can change the solver settings or applied potential; alter the output routines, and so on.

For example, here is a code snippet (see :ref:`Chap:MiniApplications` for the full code) that allows you to change your cell tagger during restarts

.. code-block:: c++
	  
   ParmParse pp("my_application");
   bool use_my_tagger = false;
   pp.query("change_tagger", use_my_tagger);

   RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> tagger;
   if(use_my_tagger){
      tagger = RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> (new my_tagger());
   }
   else{
      tagger = RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> (new field_tagger());
   }

   RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> amr                    = RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> (new amr_mesh());
   RefCountedPtr<geo_coarsener> geocoarsen        = RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> (new geo_coarsener());
   RefCountedPtr<plasma_engine> engine            = RefCountedPtr<plasma_engine> (new plasma_engine(physdom,
		                                                                                    compgeom,
												    plaskin,
												    timestepper,
												    amr,
												    tagger,
												    geocoarsen));

In the above, we assume that *my_tagger* and *field_tagger* are separate implementations of :ref:`Chap:cell_tagger`, and we have created an input variable ``my_application.change_tagger`` which allows for specification of the cell tagger at run time.

Commit message:

Added subdirectories to simulation files and optimized the Scharfetter-Gummel solver

doc/sphinx/source/RunningSimulations.rst, after:

.. _Chap:RunningSimulations:

Running simulations
===================

To run simulations, the user must first compile his application. Once the application has been defined, the user may compile is by

.. code-block:: bash

   make -s -j 32 DIM=N <application_name>

where *N* may be 2 or 3, and <application_name> is the name of the mini-application. This will compile an executable whose name depends on your application name and compiler settings. Please refer to the Chombo manual for explanation of the executable name. You may, of course, rename your application.

Next, applications are run by

.. code-block:: bash

		mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file>

where <input_file> is your input file. On clusters, this is a little bit different and usually requires passing the above command through a batch system. Note that if you define a parameter multiple times in the input file, it's the last definition that matters. 

You may also pass input parameters through the command line. For example, running

.. code-block:: bash

   mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file> plasma_engine.max_steps=10

set the ``plasma_engine.max_steps`` parameter to 10. Note that this overrides whatever is defined in the <input_file>. 

.. _Chap:ControllingOutput:

Controlling output
------------------

PlasmaC comes with controls for adjusting output. Through the :ref:`Chap:plasma_engine` class the user may adjust the option ``plasma_engine.output_directory`` to adjust where output files will be placed. If this directory does not exist, PlasmaC does it's best at creating it. In addition, it will create three more directories

* :file:`output_directory/plt` contains all plot files.
* :file:`output_directory/chk` contains all checkpoint files, which are used for restarting.
* :file:`output_directory/proc` contains graphical information of patch distributions among the MPI ranks. 
* :file:`output_directory/geo` contains geometric files that are written by PlasmaC (if you enable ``plasma_engine.write_ebis``).

The files in :file:`output_directory/geo` do *not* represent your geometry in the form of level sets. Instead, the files that are placed here are HDF5 representations of your embedded boundary graph, which can be *read* by PlasmaC if you enable ``plasma_engine.read_ebis``. This is a shortcut that allows faster geometry generation when you restart simulations.

The reason for this design is that PlasmaC can end up writing thousands of files per simulation and we feel that having a directory structure helps us navigate the simulation data.

By default, Chombo will write a process output file *per MPI process* and this file will be named :file:`pout.n` where ``n`` is the MPI rank. These files are written in the directory where you executed your application, and are *not* related to plot files or checkpoint files. However, PlasmaC prints information to these files as simulations advance (for example by displaying information of the current time step, or convergence rates for multigrid solvers). While it is possible to monitor the evolution of PlasmaC through each MPI, most of these files contain redundant information. To turn off the number of files that will be written, Chombo can read an environment variable ``CH_OUTPUT_INTERVAL``. For example, if you only want the master MPI rank to write :file:`pout.0`, you would do

.. code-block:: bash

   export CH_OUTPUT_INTERVAL=999999999

You can, of course, put the definition in your :file:`.bashrc` file (for Bourne shell). Note that if you run simulations at high concurrencies, you *should* turn off the number of process output files since they impact the performance of the file system. 
   
.. _Chap:RestartingSimulations:

Restarting simulations
----------------------

Restarting simulations is done in exactly the same way as running simulations, although the user must set the ``plasma_engine.restart`` flag and the ``plasma_engine.restart_step`` input variable. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   mpirun -np 32 <application_executable> <input_file> plasma_engine.restart=true plasma_engine.restart_step=10

When a simulation is restarted, PlasmaC will look for a checkpoint file with the ``plasma_engine.output_names`` variable and the specified restart step. If this file is not found, restarting will not work. You must therefore ensure that your executable can locate this file. This also implies that you cannot change the ``plasma_engine.output_names`` variable during restarts, unless you also change the name of your checkpoint file.

Changing your physics
_____________________

During the restart step, PlasmaC will load the initial grids and checkpointed data into memory. This data resides in an HDF5 file with where appropriate headers are used to identify where the data belongs. Amongst other things, the names of these headers are taken from :ref:`Chap:plasma_kinetics`, so you cannot change the species during during restarts. Currently, PlasmaC requires the exact same number of species during restarts, as well as consistent names for these. However, you *may* change the :ref:`Chap:plasma_kinetics` core functions, allowing you to change your plasma chemistry during restarts.

Changing your integrator
________________________

Users may also change temporal integrators during restarts. However, this requires you to 1) in advance set up two different integrators and provide input variables to these or 2) recompile your executable with a different integrator.

Changing spatial discretization
_______________________________

Spatial discretization may be changed during restarts. **However, you are *not* allowed to change the geometry or physical domain.** Furthermore, the following :ref:`Chap:amr_mesh` input variables are off-limits:

* ``amr.coarsest_domain``
* ``amr.max_amr_depth``
* ``amr.ref_rat``

If you change these variables, the checkpointed data cannot be imported into memory. In principle, we *can* extend PlasmaC so that this will be allowed. If you really, really want this feature, please :ref:`Chap:contact`.

Note that whatever changes you otherwise apply to :ref:`Chap:amr_mesh` become active only after the first regrid. 

Changing other settings
_______________________

Apart from the above variables, most changes are allowed during restarts. For example, you are allowed to use different tagging criteria (or even entirely different tagging classes); you can change the solver settings or applied potential; alter the output routines, and so on.

For example, here is a code snippet (see :ref:`Chap:MiniApplications` for the full code) that allows you to change your cell tagger during restarts

.. code-block:: c++
	  
   ParmParse pp("my_application");
   bool use_my_tagger = false;
   pp.query("change_tagger", use_my_tagger);

   RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> tagger;
   if(use_my_tagger){
      tagger = RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> (new my_tagger());
   }
   else{
      tagger = RefCountedPtr<cell_tagger> (new field_tagger());
   }

   RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> amr                    = RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> (new amr_mesh());
   RefCountedPtr<geo_coarsener> geocoarsen        = RefCountedPtr<amr_mesh> (new geo_coarsener());
   RefCountedPtr<plasma_engine> engine            = RefCountedPtr<plasma_engine> (new plasma_engine(physdom,
		                                                                                    compgeom,
												    plaskin,
												    timestepper,
												    amr,
												    tagger,
												    geocoarsen));

In the above, we assume that *my_tagger* and *field_tagger* are separate implementations of :ref:`Chap:cell_tagger`, and we have created an input variable ``my_application.change_tagger`` which allows for specification of the cell tagger at run time.
