Docs/Sphinx/source/Applications/AdvectionDiffusionModel.rst, before:

.. _Chap:AdvectionDiffusionModel:

Advection-diffusion
===================

The advection-diffusion model simply advects a scalar quantity with EB and AMR.
The equation of motion is

.. math::

   \frac{\partial\phi}{\partial t} + \nabla\cdot\left(\mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi\right) = 0.

The full implementation for this model consists of the following classes:

* ``AdvectionDiffusionStepper``, which implements :ref:`Chap:TimeStepper`.
* ``AdvectionDiffusionSpecies``, which parses the initial conditions into the problem.
* ``AdvectionDiffusionTagger``, which implements :ref:`Chap:CellTagger` and flags cells for refinement and coarsening.

The source code for this problem is found in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Physics/AdvectionDiffusion`.
See `AdvectionDiffusionStepper <https://chombo-discharge.github.io/chombo-discharge/doxygen/html/classPhysics_1_1AdvectionDiffusion_1_1AdvectionDiffusionStepper.html>`_ for the C++ API for this time stepper.  


Time stepping
-------------

Two time stepping algorithms are supported:

#. A second-order Runge-Kutta method (Heun's method).
#. An implicit-explicit method (IMEX) which uses corner-transport upwind (CTU, see :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU`) and a Crank-Nicholson diffusion solve.

To select an integrator, set

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.integrator = imex # 'imex' or 'heun'

The user can set the CFL number and maximum/minimum permitted time steps by

.. code-block:: none
		
   AdvectionDiffusion.cfl    = 0.5  
   AdvectionDiffusion.min_dt = 0.0  
   AdvectionDiffusion.max_dt = 1.E99

where ``AdvectionDiffusion.cfl`` is computed differently based on the chosen discretization. 

Heun's method
_____________

For Heun's method we perform the following steps:
Let :math:`\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi\right)\right]` be the finite-volume approximation to :math:`\nabla\cdot\left(\mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi\right)`, where :math:`\mathbf{J}\left(\phi\right) = \mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi`.
The Runge-Kutta advance is then

.. math::

   \phi^\prime &= \phi^k - \Delta t\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^k\right)\right]\\
   \phi^{k+1} &= \phi^k - \frac{\Delta t}{2}\left(\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^k\right)\right] + \left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^\prime\right)\right]\right)

Note that when diffusion and advecting is coupled in this way, we do not include the transverse terms in the CTU discretization and limit the time step by

.. math::

   \Delta t \leq \frac{1}{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^d |v_i|}{\Delta x} + \frac{2dD}{\Delta x^2}},

where :math:`d` is the dimensionality and :math:`D` is the diffusion coefficient. 

IMEX
____

For the implicit-explicit advance, we use the CTU discretization to center the divergence at the half time step.
We seek the update

.. math::
   
   \frac{\phi^{k+1} - \phi^k}{\Delta t} - \frac{1}{2}\left[\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^k\right) + \nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^{k+1}\right)\right] = -\nabla\cdot\mathbf{v}\phi^{k+1/2},

which is a Crank-Nicholson discretization of the diffusion equation with a source term centered on :math:`k+1/2`.
We use the CTU discretization (see :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU`) for computing the edge states :math:`\phi^{k+1/2}` and then complete the update by solving the corresponding Helmholtz equation

.. math::

   \phi^{k+1} - \frac{\Delta t}{2}\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^{k+1}\right) = \phi^k - \Delta t\nabla\cdot\mathbf{v}\phi^{k+1/2} + \frac{\Delta t}{2}\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^k\right)

In this case the time step limitation is

.. math::

   \Delta t \leq \frac{\Delta x}{\sum_i^d\left|v_i\right|}.

.. warning::

   It is possible to use this module with any implementation of ``CdrSolver``, but the IMEX discretization only makes sense if the hyperbolic term can be centered on :math:`k+1/2`. 
		

Initial data
------------

The initial data for this problem is given by a super-Gaussian blob

.. math::

   \phi\left(\mathbf{x},t=0\right) = \phi_0\exp\left(-\frac{\left|\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{x}_0\right|^4}{2R^4}\right),

where :math:`\phi_0` is an amplitude, :math:`\mathbf{x}_0` is the blob center and :math:`R` is the blob radius.
These are set by the input options

.. code-block:: none
		
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_amplitude = 1.0
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_radius    = 0.1
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_center    = 0 0 0

Velocity field and diffusion coefficient
----------------------------------------

The diffusion coefficient is set to a constant while the velocity field for this problem is simply set to

.. math::

   v_x &= -r\omega\sin\theta, \\
   v_y &=  r\omega\cos\theta, \\
   v_z &= 0,

where :math:`r = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2}`, :math:`\tan\theta = \frac{x}{y}`.
I.e. the flow field is a circulation around the Cartesian.

To adjust the diffusion coefficient and :math:`\omega`, set

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.diffco = 1.0
   AdvectionDiffusion.omega  = 1.0

to a chosen value. 		

Boundary conditions
-------------------

At the EB, this module uses a wall boundary condition (i.e. no flux into or out of the EB).
On domain edges (faces in 3D), the user can select between wall boundary conditions or outflow boundary conditions by selecting the corresponding input option for the solver.
E.g. for the :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU` discretization:

.. code-block:: none

   CdrCTU.bc.x.lo = wall # 'wall' or 'outflow'
   CdrCTU.bc.x.hi = wall # 'wall' or 'outflow'

The syntax for the other boundaries are completely analogous.

Cell refinement
----------------

The cell refinement is based on two criteria:

#. The amplitude of :math:`\phi`.
#. The local curvature :math:`\left|\nabla\phi\right|\Delta x/\phi`.

We refine if the curvature is above some threshold :math:`\epsilon_1` *and* the amplitude is above some threshold :math:`\epsilon_2`.
These can be adjusted through

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.refine_curv = 0.25
   AdvectionDiffusion.refine_magn = 1E-2


Setting up a new problem
------------------------

Example program
---------------

Convergence testing
-------------------

Commit message:

Working on finalizing setup tools

Docs/Sphinx/source/Applications/AdvectionDiffusionModel.rst, after:

.. _Chap:AdvectionDiffusionModel:

Advection-diffusion
===================

The advection-diffusion model simply advects a scalar quantity with EB and AMR.
The equation of motion is

.. math::

   \frac{\partial\phi}{\partial t} + \nabla\cdot\left(\mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi\right) = 0.

The full implementation for this model consists of the following classes:

* ``AdvectionDiffusionStepper``, which implements :ref:`Chap:TimeStepper`.
* ``AdvectionDiffusionSpecies``, which parses the initial conditions into the problem.
* ``AdvectionDiffusionTagger``, which implements :ref:`Chap:CellTagger` and flags cells for refinement and coarsening.

The source code for this problem is found in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Physics/AdvectionDiffusion`.
See `AdvectionDiffusionStepper <https://chombo-discharge.github.io/chombo-discharge/doxygen/html/classPhysics_1_1AdvectionDiffusion_1_1AdvectionDiffusionStepper.html>`_ for the C++ API for this time stepper.  


Time stepping
-------------

Two time stepping algorithms are supported:

#. A second-order Runge-Kutta method (Heun's method).
#. An implicit-explicit method (IMEX) which uses corner-transport upwind (CTU, see :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU`) and a Crank-Nicholson diffusion solve.

To select an integrator, set

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.integrator = imex # 'imex' or 'heun'

The user can set the CFL number and maximum/minimum permitted time steps by

.. code-block:: none
		
   AdvectionDiffusion.cfl    = 0.5  
   AdvectionDiffusion.min_dt = 0.0  
   AdvectionDiffusion.max_dt = 1.E99

where ``AdvectionDiffusion.cfl`` is computed differently based on the chosen discretization. 

Heun's method
_____________

For Heun's method we perform the following steps:
Let :math:`\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi\right)\right]` be the finite-volume approximation to :math:`\nabla\cdot\left(\mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi\right)`, where :math:`\mathbf{J}\left(\phi\right) = \mathbf{v}\phi - D\nabla\phi`.
The Runge-Kutta advance is then

.. math::

   \phi^\prime &= \phi^k - \Delta t\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^k\right)\right]\\
   \phi^{k+1} &= \phi^k - \frac{\Delta t}{2}\left(\left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^k\right)\right] + \left[\nabla\cdot\mathbf{J}\left(\phi^\prime\right)\right]\right)

Note that when diffusion and advecting is coupled in this way, we do not include the transverse terms in the CTU discretization and limit the time step by

.. math::

   \Delta t \leq \frac{1}{\frac{\sum_{i=1}^d |v_i|}{\Delta x} + \frac{2dD}{\Delta x^2}},

where :math:`d` is the dimensionality and :math:`D` is the diffusion coefficient. 

IMEX
____

For the implicit-explicit advance, we use the CTU discretization to center the divergence at the half time step.
We seek the update

.. math::
   
   \frac{\phi^{k+1} - \phi^k}{\Delta t} - \frac{1}{2}\left[\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^k\right) + \nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^{k+1}\right)\right] = -\nabla\cdot\mathbf{v}\phi^{k+1/2},

which is a Crank-Nicholson discretization of the diffusion equation with a source term centered on :math:`k+1/2`.
We use the CTU discretization (see :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU`) for computing the edge states :math:`\phi^{k+1/2}` and then complete the update by solving the corresponding Helmholtz equation

.. math::

   \phi^{k+1} - \frac{\Delta t}{2}\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^{k+1}\right) = \phi^k - \Delta t\nabla\cdot\mathbf{v}\phi^{k+1/2} + \frac{\Delta t}{2}\nabla\left(D\nabla\phi^k\right)

In this case the time step limitation is

.. math::

   \Delta t \leq \frac{\Delta x}{\sum_i^d\left|v_i\right|}.

.. warning::

   It is possible to use this module with any implementation of ``CdrSolver``, but the IMEX discretization only makes sense if the hyperbolic term can be centered on :math:`k+1/2`. 
		

Initial data
------------

By default, the initial data for this problem is given by a super-Gaussian blob

.. math::

   \phi\left(\mathbf{x},t=0\right) = \phi_0\exp\left(-\frac{\left|\mathbf{x}-\mathbf{x}_0\right|^4}{2R^4}\right),

where :math:`\phi_0` is an amplitude, :math:`\mathbf{x}_0` is the blob center and :math:`R` is the blob radius.
These are set by the input options

.. code-block:: none
		
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_amplitude = 1.0
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_radius    = 0.1
   AdvectionDiffusion.blob_center    = 0 0 0

Velocity field and diffusion coefficient
----------------------------------------

The diffusion coefficient is set to a constant while the velocity field for this problem is simply set to

.. math::

   v_x &= -r\omega\sin\theta, \\
   v_y &=  r\omega\cos\theta, \\
   v_z &= 0,

where :math:`r = \sqrt{x^2 + y^2}`, :math:`\tan\theta = \frac{x}{y}`.
I.e. the flow field is a circulation around the Cartesian.

To adjust the diffusion coefficient and :math:`\omega`, set

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.diffco = 1.0
   AdvectionDiffusion.omega  = 1.0

to a chosen value. 		

Boundary conditions
-------------------

At the EB, this module uses a wall boundary condition (i.e. no flux into or out of the EB).
On domain edges (faces in 3D), the user can select between wall boundary conditions or outflow boundary conditions by selecting the corresponding input option for the solver.
E.g. for the :ref:`Chap:CdrCTU` discretization:

.. code-block:: none

   CdrCTU.bc.x.lo = wall # 'wall' or 'outflow'
   CdrCTU.bc.x.hi = wall # 'wall' or 'outflow'

The syntax for the other boundaries are completely analogous.

Cell refinement
----------------

The cell refinement is based on two criteria:

#. The amplitude of :math:`\phi`.
#. The local curvature :math:`\left|\nabla\phi\right|\Delta x/\phi`.

We refine if the curvature is above some threshold :math:`\epsilon_1` *and* the amplitude is above some threshold :math:`\epsilon_2`.
These can be adjusted through

.. code-block:: none

   AdvectionDiffusion.refine_curv = 0.25
   AdvectionDiffusion.refine_magn = 1E-2


Setting up a new problem
------------------------

To set up a new problem, use the Python setup tools in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Physics/AdvectionDiffusion`.
To see available setup options, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py --help

For example, to set up a new problem in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/MyApplications/MyAdvectionDiffusionProblem` for a coaxial cable geometry, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py -base_dir=MyApplications -app_name=MyAdvectionDiffusionProblem -geometry=CoaxialCable

This will set up a new problem in a coaxial cable geometry (defined in :file:`Geometries/CoaxialCable`). 

Example program
---------------

Convergence testing
-------------------
