Docs/Sphinx/source/Applications/ElectrostaticsModel.rst, before:

.. _Chap:ElectrostaticsModel:

Electrostatics model
====================

The electrostatics model solves

.. math::

   \nabla\cdot\left(\epsilon_r\nabla\Phi\right) = -\frac{\rho}{\epsilon_0}

subject to the constraints and boundary conditions given in :ref:`Chap:FieldSolver`.

Setting up a new problem
------------------------

To set up a new problem, using the Python setup tools in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Physics/Electrostatics` is the simplest way.
To see available setup options, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py --help

For example, to set up a new problem in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/MyApplications/MyElectrostaticsProblem` for a cylinder geometry, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py -base_dir=MyApplications -app_name=MyElectrostaticsProblem -geometry=Cylinder

This will set up a new problem in a cylinder geometry (defined in :file:`Geometries/Cylinder`).

Example programs
----------------

Some example programs for this module are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/Armadillo`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/Mechshaft`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/ProfiledSurface`  


Verification
------------

Spatial convergence tests for this module (and consequently the underlying numerical discretization) are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C1`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C2`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C3`

All tests operate by computing solutions on grids with resolutions :math:`\Delta x` and :math:`\Delta x/2` and then computing the solution error using the approach outlined in :ref:`Chap:SpatialConvergence`. 


C1: Coaxial cable (2D)
______________________

C2: Profiled surface (2D)
_________________________

C3: Mechanical shaft (3D)
_________________________

Commit message:

Added C1 test to user guide

Docs/Sphinx/source/Applications/ElectrostaticsModel.rst, after:

.. _Chap:ElectrostaticsModel:

Electrostatics model
====================

The electrostatics model solves

.. math::

   \nabla\cdot\left(\epsilon_r\nabla\Phi\right) = -\frac{\rho}{\epsilon_0}

subject to the constraints and boundary conditions given in :ref:`Chap:FieldSolver`.

Setting up a new problem
------------------------

To set up a new problem, using the Python setup tools in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Physics/Electrostatics` is the simplest way.
To see available setup options, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py --help

For example, to set up a new problem in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/MyApplications/MyElectrostaticsProblem` for a cylinder geometry, run

.. code-block:: bash

   ./setup.py -base_dir=MyApplications -app_name=MyElectrostaticsProblem -geometry=Cylinder

This will set up a new problem in a cylinder geometry (defined in :file:`Geometries/Cylinder`).

Example programs
----------------

Some example programs for this module are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/Armadillo`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/Mechshaft`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Examples/Electrostatics/ProfiledSurface`  


Verification
------------

Spatial convergence tests for this module (and consequently the underlying numerical discretization) are given in

* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C1`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C2`
* :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C3`

All tests operate by computing solutions on grids with resolutions :math:`\Delta x` and :math:`\Delta x/2` and then computing the solution error using the approach outlined in :ref:`Chap:SpatialConvergence`. 


C1: Coaxial cable
_________________

A spatial convergence test is given in :file:`$DISCHARGE_HOME/Exec/Convergence/Electrostatics/C1`.
Figure :ref:`Fig:ElectrostaticsC1_1` show the field distribution for the coaxial cable geometry convergence test.
Note that there is a dielectric embedded between the two cylindrical shells. 

.. _Fig:ElectrostaticsC1_1:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/ElectrostaticsC1_1.png
   :width: 360
   :align: center

   Field distribution for a coaxial cable geometry on a :math:`512^2` grid. 

The computed convergence rates are given in :ref:`Fig:ElectrostaticsC1_2`.
We find second order convergence in all three norms. 

.. _Fig:ElectrostaticsC1_2:
.. figure:: /_static/figures/ElectrostaticsC1_2.png
   :width: 360px
   :align: center

   Spatial convergence rates for two-dimensional coaxial cable geometry. 


C2: Profiled surface
____________________


C3: Mechanical shaft
____________________
